docs/getting-started/installation.md, before:

# Installation

Decompose provides a number of modules, they are all published to Maven Central Repository.

## The main Decompose module

The main functionality is provided by the `decompose` module. It contains some core features like [ComponentContext](/Decompose/component/overview/#componentcontext), [Child Stack](/Decompose/navigation/stack/overview/), etc.

### Gradle setup

=== "Groovy"

    ``` groovy
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>"
    ```

=== "Kotlin"

    ``` kotlin
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>")
    ```

### Dependency on Essenty library

Some functionality is actually provided by [Essenty](https://github.com/arkivanov/Essenty) library. Essenty is implemented by the same author and provides very basic things like `Lifecycle`, `StateKeeper`, etc. Most important Essenty modules are added to the `decompose` module as `api` dependency, so you don't have to add them manually to your project. Please familiarise yourself with Essenty library.

!!! note
    If you are targetting Android, make sure you applied the [kotlin-parcelize](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/parcelize) Gradle plugin.

## Extensions for Jetpack/JetBrains Compose

The Compose UI is currently published in two separate variants:

- The one developed and maintained by Google is Android only, called [Jetpack Compose](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/compose)
- The Kotlin Multiplatform variant of Jetpack Compose maintained by both JetBrains and Google, we call it [JetBrains Compose](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-jb)

Due to this fragmentation Decompose provides two separate extension modules for Compose UI:

- `extensions-compose-jetpack` - Android library for Jetpack Compose
- `extensions-compose-jetbrains` - Kotlin Multiplatform library for JetBrains Compose, supports `android` and `jvm` targets

Both modules are used to connect Compose UI to Decompose components. Please see the corresponding [documentation page](/Decompose/extensions/compose/).

### Gradle setup

Typically only one module should be selected, depending on the Compose UI variant being used.

=== "Groovy"

    ``` groovy
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetpack:<version>"
    // or
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetbrains:<version>"
    ```

=== "Kotlin"

    ``` kotlin
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetpack:<version>")
    // or
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetbrains:<version>")
    ```

## Extensions for Android views

The `extensions-android` module provides extensions to connect Android views based UI to Decompose components. Please head to the corresponding [documentation page](/Decompose/extensions/android/) for more information.

### Gradle setup

=== "Groovy"

    ``` groovy
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-android:<version>"
    ```

=== "Kotlin"

    ``` kotlin
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-android:<version>")
    ```

## Exporting Decompose to iOS Framework

For using Decompose on your iOS project you need to export it to the iOS Framework.

### Regular Framework


``` kotlin
...
kotlin {
    ...
    targets
        .filterIsInstance<KotlinNativeTarget>()
        .filter { it.konanTarget.family == Family.IOS }
        .forEach {
            it.binaries.framework {
                ...
                
                export("com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>")
                export("com.arkivanov.essenty:lifecycle:<essenty_version>")
    
                // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
                export("com.arkivanov.essenty:state-keeper:<essenty_version>")
    
                // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
                export("com.arkivanov.parcelize.darwin:runtime:<parcelize_darwin_version>")
            }
        }
    ...
}
...
```

### CocoaPods

``` kotlin
...
kotlin {
    ...
    cocoapods {
        ...
        framework {
            ...

            export("com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>")
            export("com.arkivanov.essenty:lifecycle:<essenty_version>")

            // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
            export("com.arkivanov.essenty:state-keeper:<essenty_version>")

            // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
            export("com.arkivanov.parcelize.darwin:runtime:<parcelize_darwin_version>")
        }
    }
    ...
}
...
```

Commit message:

Updated installation docs with Compose for iOS

docs/getting-started/installation.md, after:

# Installation

Decompose provides a number of modules, they are all published to Maven Central Repository.

## The main Decompose module

The main functionality is provided by the `decompose` module. It contains some core features like [ComponentContext](/Decompose/component/overview/#componentcontext), [Child Stack](/Decompose/navigation/stack/overview/), etc.

### Gradle setup

=== "Groovy"

    ``` groovy
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>"
    ```

=== "Kotlin"

    ``` kotlin
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>")
    ```

### Dependency on Essenty library

Some functionality is actually provided by [Essenty](https://github.com/arkivanov/Essenty) library. Essenty is implemented by the same author and provides very basic things like `Lifecycle`, `StateKeeper`, etc. Most important Essenty modules are added to the `decompose` module as `api` dependency, so you don't have to add them manually to your project. Please familiarise yourself with Essenty library.

!!! note
    If you are targetting Android, make sure you applied the [kotlin-parcelize](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/parcelize) Gradle plugin.

## Extensions for Jetpack/JetBrains Compose

The Compose UI is currently published in two separate variants:

- The one developed and maintained by Google is Android only, called [Jetpack Compose](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/compose)
- The Kotlin Multiplatform variant of Jetpack Compose maintained by both JetBrains and Google, we call it [JetBrains Compose](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-jb)

Due to this fragmentation Decompose provides two separate extension modules for Compose UI:

- `extensions-compose-jetpack` - Android library for Jetpack Compose
- `extensions-compose-jetbrains` - Kotlin Multiplatform library for JetBrains Compose, supports `android` and `jvm` targets

Both modules are used to connect Compose UI to Decompose components. Please see the corresponding [documentation page](/Decompose/extensions/compose/).

### Gradle setup

Typically only one module should be selected, depending on the Compose UI variant being used.

=== "Groovy"

    ``` groovy
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetpack:<version>"
    // or
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetbrains:<version>"
    ```

=== "Kotlin"

    ``` kotlin
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetpack:<version>")
    // or
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetbrains:<version>")
    ```

#### Support for Compose for iOS and Web (JS Canvas, not WASM)

Compose for iOS and Web (JS Canvas, not WASM) are supported and published from a separate branch: `compose-experimental`. This means that a special version suffix for all Decompose modules is required when configuring dependencies.

=== "Groovy"

    ``` groovy
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>-compose-experimental"
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetbrains:<version>-compose-experimental"
    ```

=== "Kotlin"

    ``` kotlin
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>-compose-experimental")
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-compose-jetbrains:<version>-compose-experimental")
    ```

!!!warning
    WASM target is not yet supported. Please follow [issue #74](https://github.com/arkivanov/Decompose/issues/74) for more information and updates.

## Extensions for Android views

The `extensions-android` module provides extensions to connect Android views based UI to Decompose components. Please head to the corresponding [documentation page](/Decompose/extensions/android/) for more information.

### Gradle setup

=== "Groovy"

    ``` groovy
    implementation "com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-android:<version>"
    ```

=== "Kotlin"

    ``` kotlin
    implementation("com.arkivanov.decompose:extensions-android:<version>")
    ```

## Exporting Decompose to iOS Framework

For using Decompose on your iOS project you need to export it to the iOS Framework.

### Regular Framework


``` kotlin
...
kotlin {
    ...
    targets
        .filterIsInstance<KotlinNativeTarget>()
        .filter { it.konanTarget.family == Family.IOS }
        .forEach {
            it.binaries.framework {
                ...
                
                export("com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>")
                export("com.arkivanov.essenty:lifecycle:<essenty_version>")
    
                // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
                export("com.arkivanov.essenty:state-keeper:<essenty_version>")
    
                // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
                export("com.arkivanov.parcelize.darwin:runtime:<parcelize_darwin_version>")
            }
        }
    ...
}
...
```

### CocoaPods

``` kotlin
...
kotlin {
    ...
    cocoapods {
        ...
        framework {
            ...

            export("com.arkivanov.decompose:decompose:<version>")
            export("com.arkivanov.essenty:lifecycle:<essenty_version>")

            // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
            export("com.arkivanov.essenty:state-keeper:<essenty_version>")

            // Optional, only if you need state preservation on Darwin (Apple) targets
            export("com.arkivanov.parcelize.darwin:runtime:<parcelize_darwin_version>")
        }
    }
    ...
}
...
```
